---
title: Some Tips on Restructuring Projects in Git
publication_date: 2024-04-15
---
I like my Git history to track files that may get renamed or moved. However, when renaming things directly in the Visual
Studio Solution Explorer, it seems a roll of the dice whether you will record a Git rename operation or whether it will
show up as a delete (of the old name) and create (of the new name) -- and break the continuity of the file history.

What I do is close out of Visual Studio and drop down to the command line.
1. Do all my `git mv` operations, i.e. rename the solution file or projects or any restructuring and then commit that change.
    That will give a clean commit of just the moving or renaming of files.
2. Then open the folder in VSCode and manually edit the .sln file and anything else needed to fix the paths and get things
    compiling again. Then commit that as its own change.

You can see that I did that approach here to rename my new WebApplication1 project to Website. Additionally I like to keep the
.sln file in the repository root and any projects under a folder named `/src` with the folder names matching the project names.
If the website was further along, I would show this with visuals, but we're a long way away from displaying images, so you'll
have to look at the commit history to see what I mean:

- The rename/move commit: [https://github.com/jacobslusser/website/commit/6a341d71b9e1a54eca9a973295b7f3c8e7b468fb](https://github.com/jacobslusser/website/commit/6a341d71b9e1a54eca9a973295b7f3c8e7b468fb)
- The update paths commit: [https://github.com/jacobslusser/website/commit/5c29bd82bd7db317c7e33c3ed53d7d6b2a9f9b0f](https://github.com/jacobslusser/website/commit/5c29bd82bd7db317c7e33c3ed53d7d6b2a9f9b0f)

Assuming everything went well, I then open the solution again in Visual Studio.
